#What is the difference between LL and LR parsing?

At a high level, the difference between LL parsing and LR parsing is that
LL parsers begin at the start symbol and try to apply productions to arrive
at the target string, whereas LR parsers begin at the target string and try to
arrive back at the start symbol.

An LL parse is a left-to-right, leftmost derivation. That is, we consider the
input symbols from the left to the right and attempt to construct a leftmost
derivation. This is done by beginning at the start symbol and repeatedly
expanding out the leftmost nonterminal until we arrive at the target string.
An LR parse is a left-to-right, rightmost derivation, meaning that we scan from
the left to right and attempt to construct a rightmost derivation. The parser
continuously picks a substring of the input and attempts to reverse it back
to a nonterminal.

##LL Parser

During an LL parse, the parser continuously chooses between two actions:
- Predict: Based on the leftmost nonterminal and some number of lookahead
  	   tokens, choose which production ought to be applied to get closer
	   to the input string.
- Match: Match the leftmost guessed terminal symbol with
  	 the leftmost unconsumed symbol of input.
	
As an example, given this grammar:

    S → E
    E → T + E
    E → T
    T → int

Then given the string int + int + int, an LL(2) parser (which uses two tokens
of lookahead) would parse the string as follows:

Production       Input              Action
---------------------------------------------------------
S                int + int + int    Predict S -> E
E                int + int + int    Predict E -> T + E
T + E            int + int + int    Predict T -> int
int + E          int + int + int    Match int
+ E              + int + int        Match +
E                int + int          Predict E -> T + E
T + E            int + int          Predict T -> int
int + E          int + int          Match int
+ E              + int              Match +
E                int                Predict E -> T
T                int                Predict T -> int
int              int                Match int
                                    Accept

Notice that in each step we look at the leftmost symbol in our production.
If it's a terminal, we match it, and if it's a nonterminal,
we predict what it's going to be by choosing one of the rules.

##LR Parser

In an LR parser, there are two actions:

- Shift: Add the next token of input to a buffer for consideration.
- Reduce: Reduce a collection of terminals and nonterminals in this buffer back
  	  to some nonterminal by reversing a production.

As an example, an LR(1) parser (with one token of lookahead) might parse
that same string as follows:

Workspace        Input              Action
---------------------------------------------------------
                 int + int + int    Shift
int              + int + int        Reduce T -> int
T                + int + int        Shift
T +              int + int          Shift
T + int          + int              Reduce T -> int
T + T            + int              Shift
T + T +          int                Shift
T + T + int                         Reduce T -> int
T + T + T                           Reduce E -> T
T + T + E                           Reduce E -> T + E
T + E                               Reduce E -> T + E
E                                   Reduce S -> E
S                                   Accept
		 
Thoses two parsing algorithms are known to have different characteristics.
LL parsers tend to be easier to write by hand, but they are less powerful than
LR parsers and accept a much smaller set of grammars than LR parsers do.
LR parsers come in many flavors (LR(0), SLR(1), LALR(1), LR(1), IELR(1), etc.)
and are far more powerful. They also tend to have much more complex and are
almost always generated by tools like yacc or bison.
LL parsers also come in many flavors (including LL(*), which is used by
the ANTLR tool), though in practice LL(1) is the most-widely used.

As a shameless plug, if you'd like to learn more about LL and LR parsing,
I just finished teaching a compilers course and have some handouts and
lecture slides on parsing on the course website.
I'd be glad to elaborate on any of them if you think it would be useful.


## FROM http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5975741/what-is-the-difference-between-ll-and-lr-parsing#6824545
